# MachineLearning
Predict risk category of restaurants. Dataset : Restaurant Scores - LIVES Standard

The Health Department has developed an inspection report and scoring system. After conducting an inspection of the facility, the Health Inspector calculates a score based on the violations observed. Violations can fall into:high risk category: records specific violations that directly relate to the transmission of food borne illnesses, the adulteration of food products and the contamination of food-contact surfaces.moderate risk category: records specific violations that are of a moderate risk to the public health and safety.low risk category: records violations that are low risk or have no immediate risk to the public health and safety.The score card that will be issued by the inspector is maintained at the food establishment and is available to the public in this dataset.
San Francisco's LIVES restaurant inspection data leverages the LIVES Flattened Schema (https://goo.gl/c3nNvr), which is based on LIVES version 2.0, cited on Yelp's website (http://www.yelp.com/healthscores).

Source : https://data.sfgov.org/Health-and-Social-Services/Restaurant-Scores-LIVES-Standard/pyih-qa8i?row_index=0

This project studies data shared by Government of San Francisco to predict the risk category of restaurants. The dataset used is LIVE and is updated daily by the government. This project details steps involved in pre-processing of data like null values, noise and outlier detection, to improve training and test set. Post cleaning of data, important features are selected and data is then divided into training and testing split of 80% and 20%. Using training data, machine learning algorithm from various family are considered and trained. The performance of the algorithms is measured using accuracy, recall, precision and F1 score. Most of the models performed averagely estimated using k-fold cross validation on the test set. Some of the models didn’t perform well and were evaluated to be overfit. At last comparison of algorithms is done using performance metrics and box and whisker plot to select the best model within family and overall for the dataset.
